Tiana Noll-WalkerElisha PhillipsCpts 132, Spring2/26/22ChallengeTiana: For this project I started by drawing a JPanel component and went from there. I originally drew a grid that displayed all the cells as pushable buttons, but couldn’t figure out how to implement the updated generation changes that way. Elisha constructed a different Component with a couple Buttons that implemented the cell changes inside the component and that worked much better. I learned a lot about implementing GUIs in this project. I feel like for this project, I really learned how to use Java better and display graphics. There were so many methods that belong to JComponent/graphics classes that I was unfamiliar with and didn’t really understand how to use, but now I feel like I understand enough to display graphics well. The most difficult part for me was definitely originally trying to get the buttons to trigger generation changes. Once Elisha changed it I understood better and was able to implement Action Listeners. Displaying the updated GUI from there was easier. I feel like I really understand actionListener and events now. Next time, I would have started easier and build from there, instead of starting with the more difficult way of implementing the program. Next time I’d also maybe start with directly just building and implementing actionListener and actionEvents for the buttons, because doing that right away for me made the rest easier to build because I had a visual and tangible sense of what needed to be done when I pushed buttons. Elisha:I went about starting the project by working out the output display. I initially tried working with buttons like tiana did, but ended up using an arraylist filled with label objects that one could access outside the initial configuration method. I tried building the separate button class extending jFrame, and incorporating into the output class but that failed to work. I ended up extending the output class and extending the output class from the primary window frame. Making the grid itself was not too troublesome, but actually being able to update the cells turned out to be difficult. I learned a lot from this assignment towards building a graphic interface, and ended up eliminating the user prompt for the generation count to calculate – I set it to calculate the next generation and add to the arraylist every time the next button is clicked and there aren’t any further generations left in the list. Next time I’d work to implement an action listener for the labels as well to allow the user to input the initial starting grid design themselves. 